PAY-4845: Updates braintree existing svg diagram and adds payment services checkout workflow (#233)
AdobeDocs/commerce-webapi: src/pages/graphql/payment-methods/payment-services-checkout.md

1. Commerce returns payment configuration information.

1. Run `setPaymentMethodOnCart` to [set the payment method](../tutorials/checkout/set-payment-method.md).

1. Adobe Commerce returns a `Cart` object.

1. Run `createPaymentOrder` to begin the authorization process.

1. Commerce forwards the request to PayPal.

1. PayPal returns an `id` value.

1. Adobe Commerce generates a `order_id` and forwards the value in the `mp_order_id` field and the PayPal response in the `id` field.

1. (Optional) If hosted fields and the Signifyd integration are enabled, run `getPaymentOrder`.

1.  (Optional) Adobe Commerce returns details about the payment order.

1.  Run `placeOrder`.

1.  Commerce sends an authorization request to PayPal.

1.  PayPal returns the result to Commerce.

1.  Commerce creates an order.

## `setPaymentMethodOnCartInput` object

When you set the payment method to Payment Services in the [`setPaymentMethodOnCart`](../schema/cart/mutations/set-payment-method.md) mutation, the `setPaymentMethodOnCartInput` object must contain specific `Payment Services` attributes for the supported payment methods.

> 

Author: will correct then payment_services_paypal_vault in the minicart PR

> 

Author: but this payment_services_paypal_vault is depending on hosted fields

> 

Author: @tomreece could you help clarify please?. Is paypal_vault depending on hosted_fields?, or should we treated it as a separated payment method?, thanks

> 

Reviewer: `payment_services_paypal_vault` is a separate payment method where a stored card is used for the transaction.

The setPaymentMethodOnCart mutation has an extra field, `public_hash`, which identifies the stored card to use in this case:

```
mutation {
    setPaymentMethodOnCart ( input: {
        cart_id: "uocGxUi5H97XFAMhY3s66q4aFYG3Bmdr",
        payment_method: {
            code: "payment_services_paypal_vault",        
            payment_services_paypal_vault: {
                payment_source: "vault",
                payments_order_id: "mp-order-a4babd34-13d3-4ac0-b1b0-109bb7be1574",
                paypal_order_id: "9R90936863877801D",
                public_hash: "shew83bdbd83y2bdjbwb2ib2ds"
            }
        }
    }
    ) {
        cart {
            id
            selected_payment_method {
                code
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This `public_hash` comes from the `customerPaymentTokens` query.

```
query {
    customerPaymentTokens {
        items {
            public_hash
            details
            payment_method_code
            type
        }
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: So, Dani, it looks like you need remove all references of Vault from this topic and create a new topic devoted to Payment Services PayPal Vault. Judging from Tom's response, it looks like you can use the PayPal PayFlow Vault as your template. The `payment_services_paypal_vault` object contains more fields than the old `payflowpro_cc_vault`. All subject to Tom's approval.

> 

Author: then, we need to update everything to reflect this unexpected new payment method?, not just this topic?

### Payment Services object

The `Payment Services` object must contain the following attributes:

> 

Reviewer 2: You can say all 3 or 4 payment methods contain `payments_order_id`, `paypal_order_id` and  `payment_source` (all presented in a table). Then mention vault contains `public_hash` and hosted fields contain these

is_active_payment_token_enabler
cardBin
cardExpiryMonth
cardExpiryYear
cardLast4
holderName

I suppose you could put them all in a single table and add a column that indicates which method uses each attribute.

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean! | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration. The possible values are `True` or `False`
`location` | PaymentLocation! | The origin location for that payment request. The possible values are PRODUCT_DETAIL, MINICART, CART, CHECKOUT, ADMIN
`payments_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `paypal_order_id`
`paypal_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated by PayPal when receiving the authorization request

> `payment_source` | String! | The identifiable payment source for the payment method

Reviewer 2: You need to say what the possible values are, or where to find this info.

### `setPaymentMethodOnCart` mutation example

The following example shows the `setPaymentMethodOnCart` mutation constructed for the PayPal Hosted Fields payment method.

**Request:**

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```graphql
```

---
title: Payment Services during a checkout authorization
description: Learn how Adobe Commerce uses GraphQL to process orders for the Payment Services payment method during a typical checkout authorization.
keywords:
  - GraphQL
  - Payments
---

# Payment services during a checkout authorization

> Payment Services for Adobe Commerce and Magento Open Source is your turnkey self-service solution, including sandbox testing and a simple setup, for providing robust and secure payment processing for your Commerce websites.

Author: we do say this in our [docs](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-merchant-services/payment-services/guide-overview.html). Added link

1. Adobe Commerce returns a `Cart` object.

1. Run `createPaymentOrder` to begin the authorization process.

1. Commerce forwards the request to PayPal.

1. PayPal returns an `id` value.

1. Adobe Commerce generates a `order_id` and forwards the value in the `mp_order_id` field and the PayPal response in the `id` field.

1. (Optional) If hosted fields and the Signifyd integration are enabled, run `getPaymentOrder`.

1.  (Optional) Adobe Commerce returns details about the payment order.

1.  Run `placeOrder`.

1.  Commerce sends an authorization request to PayPal.

1.  PayPal returns the result to Commerce.

1.  Commerce creates an order.

## `setPaymentMethodOnCart` mutation

When you set the payment method to Payment Services in the [`setPaymentMethodOnCart`](../schema/cart/mutations/set-payment-method.md) mutation, the `payment_method` object must contain a `Payment Services` object.

### Payment Services object

The `Payment Services` object must contain the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`payment_source` | String! | The identifiable payment source for the payment method

> `payments_order_id` | String! | The unique order id generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `paypal_order_id`. Required field for sale transactions

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`payments_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `paypal_order_id`. Required field for sale transactions
```

`paypal_order_id` | String! | The unique order id generated by PayPal when receiving the authorization request. Required field for sale transactions

> `is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean! | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if Vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean! | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration
```

* `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields`
* `payment_services_paypal_smart_buttons`
* `payment_services_paypal_apple_pay`

### Payment Services object

The `Payment Services` object contains the fields that are common to all the payment methods. This object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`payments_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `paypal_order_id`
`paypal_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated by PayPal when receiving the authorization request
`payment_source` | String! | The identifiable payment source for the payment method. The possible values are credit card, PayPal, and Apple Pay

If `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields` is the selected payment method, the object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cardBin` | String | Card bin number
`cardExpiryMonth` |String | Expiry month on card
`cardExpiryYear` | String | Expiry year on card

> `cardLast4` | String | Last digits of card

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cardLast4` | String | Last four digits of the card
```

`holderName` | String | Name on card

> `is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. The default value is false. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration
```

* `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields`
* `payment_services_paypal_smart_buttons`
* `payment_services_paypal_apple_pay`
* `payment_services_paypal_vault`

### Payment Services object

The `Payment Services` object contains the fields that are common to all the payment methods. This object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`payments_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated in Commerce if Payment Services is enabled after PayPal returns the `paypal_order_id`
`paypal_order_id` | String! | The unique order ID generated by PayPal when receiving the authorization request
`payment_source` | String! | The identifiable payment source for the payment method. The possible values are credit card, PayPal, and Apple Pay

If `payment_services_paypal_hosted_fields` is the selected payment method, the object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`cardBin` | String | Card bin number
`cardExpiryMonth` |String | Expiry month on card
`cardExpiryYear` | String | Expiry year on card
`cardLast4` | String | Last digits of card
`holderName` | String | Name on card

> `is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration. The possible values are `True` or `False`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`is_active_payment_token_enabler` | Boolean | States whether a customer-entered credit/debit card should be tokenized for later usage. Required only if vaulting is enabled for Payment Services payment integration
```

description: Learn how Adobe Commerce uses GraphQL to process orders for the Payment Services payment method.
keywords:
  - GraphQL
  - Payments
---

# Payment services as a payment method

Payment Services for Adobe Commerce and Magento Open Source is your turnkey self-service solution, including sandbox testing and a simple setup, for providing robust and secure payment processing for your Commerce websites.

## Payment services checkout workflow

![Payment Services sequence diagram](../../_images/graphql/payment-services.svg)

These steps describe the flow of requests and responses required to complete a typical [checkout](../tutorials/checkout/index.md) authorization with [Payment Services](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/commerce-merchant-services/payment-services/guide-overview.html) solution enabled.

1. Run `getPaymentConfig` to fetch the payment configuration to retrieve and render details about PayPal components, such as hosted fields, smart buttons, and Apple Pay.

1. Commerce returns payment configuration information.

1. Run `setPaymentMethodOnCart` to [set the payment method](../tutorials/checkout/set-payment-method.md).

> 1. Adobe Commerce returns a `Cart` object with available payment methods for the order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Adobe Commerce returns a `Cart` object.
```

1. Creates the order with the `createPaymentOrder` mutation.

1. Request forwarded to PayPal.

> 1. PayPal returns `order_id` and `mp_order_id` values.

Author: yes, correct, I'll update it

1. Adobe Commerce forwards values to client.

1. (Optiona) Run the `getPaymentOrder` mutation if hosted fields and the Signifyd integration are enabled.

> 1. Adobe Commerce returns these details.

Reviewer 2: I asked Thomas about this step. We run the query, but the response isn't a part of the `placeOrder` mutation.

Author: done

> 1. Continue with a typical checkout to [place the order](../tutorials/checkout/place-order.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the `placeOrder` mutation.
```

> 1.  (Optional) Adobe Commerce returns these details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) Adobe Commerce returns details about the payment order.
```

> 1. Request to `placeOrder` is forwarded to PayPal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Commerce sends an authorization request to PayPal.
```

> 1. PayPal returns result to Adobe Commerce.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. PayPal returns the result to Commerce.
```

> 1. Adobe Commerce forwards results to the client integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Commerce creates an order and sends an order ID in response to the placeOrder mutation.
```
